# CSV-to-Binary-Tree
CS 300 Data Structures and Algorithms Class
## Summary
In this course, it was important to solve how to utilize data structures and algorithms in a number of ways. For our main final projects of the course, this was focused on gathering course data from a csv file and uploading this into a data structure of our choice. In order to choose which data structure, we used, we would need to write pseudocode for uploading it into a vector, hash table, and binary search tree in C++ (Final Project One PDF). Then, we analyzed the load function runtime of each data structure line by line, and compared search/sort functions before choosing which one was best to use. For my project, I chose the binary search tree due to it’s speed in searching and it’s already sorted nature. 
## What I learned
Before this project, I had never used binary trees before, and the idea of reading data from a csv file felt intimidating. However, we had already done a number of smaller projects working with csv data even if we weren’t loading it ourselves, so as the weeks went by the prospect of the final project loomed less and less. I learned a lot about writing pseudo code and how to plan for writing algorithms, which I had previously tended to not do. After using pseudocode to prepare me for writing my own, it’s something I would no longer go without doing in the future. It’s been a large part of my success as it gives me something to work with while still being subject to change, instead of starting from nothing. It’s also helped me write cleaner and more structured code. Overall, while this project taught me the importance of data structures, analyzing/comparing performance of similar algorithms, and the importance of planning your code before jumping straight in. 
